Happy holidays and we have an extra
special holiday podcast at the Newport
Audrain Concourse Elegance. I sit down
with Jay Leno talking about cars,
[music] comedy, watches, and pretty much
everything else. Uh Jay's a fascinating
guy who's created really an amazing
career. I thought this conversation was
super interesting [music] and I think
you will also with no further ado my
conversation with the former host of the
Tonight Show, Jay Leno.
[music]
>> Jay, thank you so much for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, let's start out with a little bit
talking about your background. Uh, born
in New Relle. You grew up in um,
Andover, Massachusetts.
Which interest came first, cars or
comedy?
Well, when you grow up in a little rural
town, you don't think of comedy as a as
a job. You know, it always the
neighbors, you know, Kathy's boy wants
to be a comedian. He'll grow out of
that. He'll say, "Don't worry, Kathy."
You know, that that kind of, you know,
that kind of people just it didn't seem
like a viable. You know, you go to
Hollywood and you meet kids want to be
lighting directors or costumemers or
because they know people that did that,
right? You know, but when you're an
Andor, it's like what?
>> Comedian.
>> So, what sparked your interest in
comedy? How did you find that path?
>> You know, I had very good teachers. When
I was in high school, I had a English
teacher, Mrs. Hawks, and being dyslexic,
I was not the best student. And [snorts]
you know, she said, "Oh, I see making
jokes in class." And so, do you ever
think of writing comedy? I said, "Well,
I never I never thought it'd be a job."
"Oh, you should take." Oh, yeah. It's a
She said, "I'll tell you. Why don't you
maybe you could instead of writing a
paper for the final, you give a talk,
you know, and I said, okay." And I tried
to put some kids style jokes in it. It
was the first time in my life I actually
enjoyed doing homework. And I thought,
well, maybe I can make a living doing
this. But as a kid, you know, I think
people that are comedians, you tend to
remember things that are funny, things
that get a reaction, you know. Um, I I
was in the fourth grade and Mrs. Allen
was my teacher and I always remember
this. She was telling us about uh Robin
Hood and how cruel the sheriff of
Nottingham was and he would boil Robin's
men in oil. And I put my hand up and I
said, "You you know why he did that to
Tuck." And she said, "No, why?" Cuz he
was a frier. [laughter] Okay. Okay. And
then she does one of these. Are that's
not funny. Just stop. Oh, see? Oh, she's
kind of laughing, you know. But the real
kicker was later in the day I'm walking
past the teacher's lounge teach no come
in what did you say about fried talk I
said and I went oh she told my joke in
the teacher's lounge and I said oh I
said he's a f oh that's what a that's
very funny thing I went oh that's that's
pretty good and I thought oh and when
you're a kid you you know people that
you tend to remember things that get a
laugh you just sort of
>> little bit of attention
>> yeah you put them in your mind you it
makes a little indentation you know, so
that was always something I enjoyed
doing. I always remembered it, but
again, I never thought I could make a
living doing it.
>> Who Who were your comedic influences
when you were growing up?
>> Oh, Robert Klein, George Carlin, Richard
Prior, primarily Klein because Klein was
like me, middle class white kid. You
know, most comedians that time tend to
be uh grew up during the depression,
>> Henny Youngman, all those kind of guys,
you know, kids today with the long hair,
you know, all that kind of stuff, right?
Yeah. And then all along comes Robert
Klein and and uh and once again George
Carlin, Richard Prior, Bill Cosby before
the recent turn of events, you know. So
it it was yeah, those were my
influences.
>> So since we're at the Audrey Concourse
and Motor Week, let's talk a little bit
about cars.
>> Good transition,
>> right? Your first your first car was a
34 Ford stock. What'd you do to it? Uh,
I saw it. My dad and I were driving past
the tiptop miniature golf in North
Reading, Massachusetts.
>> It was parked at the Shell Station with
a sale sign. I went and I bought it.
>> Um,
>> what'd you pay for that?
>> 350, which was a lot of money in 1965.
>> Uh, but I had been working at McDonald's
and I'd saved some money and, you know,
so and we dragged it back to my house
and I took a couple of years to get it
running and I got my license and I drove
it every day to school. Yeah.
Self-taught mechanic. What do you mean
you took a couple years to get
>> self selftaught? Well, yeah. I mean,
just, you know, you're a kid, you're
playing with it after school. You know,
that kind of thing. Uh, yeah, it took me
a couple of years to learn how to Yeah,
I guess selftaught would be the fair way
to say it.
>> So, 34 Ford is the gateway drug. At what
point did you realize this is more than
a hobby? This became something of a
passion.
>> Even though I had a garage full of cars,
I perhaps this is more than Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, how many cars is too many? At what
point do you need help?
>> Well, I have 214 on the road now.
>> Plus the motorcycles.
>> You see, I watch the show Hoarders and
go,
>> "The guy's fine. What's the problem,
man? You can still get to the bathroom."
Look,
>> but that's old newspapers. You have
motorcycles and cars. Something a little
more reasonable.
>> And your parent did the same thing,
>> right? So, so um how do you decide of
the 214 cars, which one you going to
take that day?
>> Okay, that's a first world problem.
That's not
>> very much so.
>> People don't want to hear a rich guy go,
"How do I decide? I just can't decide
which
have gez do it." No, I mean, whatever
I'm working on, if I do one oil change a
day, it takes 18 months. So, you have to
look at it that way, right? So, whatever
you've just worked on, oh, let me let me
drive it home to see if it's okay. So,
that's what I enjoy.
>> So, you're a little by coastal. You're
in LA, but you also have a place here in
Newport. I do have a place and I also
have a house in Andover, Massachusetts
where I grew up in.
>> Do you do you keep any cars out here as
well?
>> No, I don't because of the weather and
you know.
>> So, what do you drive when
>> I'm one of these people really touching
my car? You know, so if I if my car was
on another coast Oh, that would be
horrible. Like when we go out to eat, if
>> if I can't see the restaurant from my
table, we're not eating here, honey.
>> That's it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There you go.
>> So, I'm curious how Leno's Garage came
about. I have this fantasy that your
accountant says to you.
>> No, no, no. I have a garage.
>> I have friends with cameras.
>> Uhhuh.
>> I'm on TV already. This seems like a
fairly natural transition. So, why don't
you take the TV hobby and put it on TV
and this way you try to, you know,
monetize as much as you can. Um, I did
it for nothing for the first, I guess,
15 years.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. You know, just because I enjoyed
doing it. It was fun. Um, and it just
opens up another, you know, you should
have something. I'm not a particularly
interesting person. Uh, you know, so if
you have other things of interest that
other people like, then you have
something in common. You can talk about
it. So, cars, motorcycles, anything that
rolls, explodes, makes noise is is is
interesting.
>> Do you know what the cars uh that are
top of the list here are going to be.
Have you walked around seen much so far?
>> Oh, yeah. This you have some of the best
cars in the world here. This is quite an
event. You all and inevitably you see
something you've never seen before or or
never even heard of. You know, there all
countries are working on automobiles
in different you know, you had cars from
Czechoslovakia. the people on the other
side of the mountains never heard of,
you know, like a Tatra, a very unusual
car. Most Americans never seen one, but
it's very popular in Czechoslovakia or
what was then Czechlovakia at the time.
So, yeah. So, it's a fascinating hobby.
And the nice thing about it is it's no
more than really 150 years old. You
know, if you if you like if you like
Egyptology, well, now you got to go back
6,000 years and stand in hot sun and dig
in the sand. And uh you know that with
with cars I have to go back a few years.
>> We we took a walk down um the boulevard
earlier. The two that kind of leapt out
to me aside from the Gwing I know you
have one of those was the Talbot Logos.
>> Talba Lago. Yeah.
>> Spectacular.
>> Yeah. Very interesting. They're very art
deco. You know it's only in recent years
cars are seen as kinetic artwork, right?
You know, it used to be it's just an old
car,
>> but now people are looking at them and I
mean it's, you know, you can buy a
painting that this for hund00 million
and get something that rolls down the
road, looks pretty, has a practical
element to it. So,
>> and only cost a tenth as much.
>> Yeah. Only cost a 10 or sometimes almost
as much, you know.
>> I mean, Ferraris go for I think the last
Ferrari sold for $75 million. I mean,
it's pretty crazy.
>> That's a one of one though, right?
>> No, no, it's one of 13.
>> 13? Wow. I also saw uh and there wasn't
a sign on it, so I'm doing this by
sight, but a Mercedes SK500,
the giant front fenders.
>> Yeah,
>> spectacular. Also,
>> they are there. I try to enjoy the the
some suspicious things happen in Germany
from the 30s to the middle 40s. I tend
to avoid those for obvious reasons, but
the early ones I love. Yeah.
>> So, let let let's talk about some of
these classic designs. What do you think
has aged especially well? What looks
good uh perhaps that wasn't thought of
so well when it first came out?
>> Oh. Oh. What did age well that wasn't
thought when it first came out? It's two
different I mean
shapes evolve. I mean cars used to
change just for the sake of change.
>> Now they change mostly because of
aerodynamics and efficiency and things
of that nature, you know. Uh, I mean, a
Prius is about an efficient shape as you
can get, but it's not, it's attractive
enough, but it's not striking. It
doesn't take your breath away the way
[clears throat] some Ferraris by Pinter,
you know, back in the in in the 20s,
30s, 40s, 50s,
>> things were drawn by hand. So, there's a
there's a
a flow.
>> Yeah. A flow. Yeah. Like now everything
is sort of computer design. you have all
these sort of weird angles and things
like that. But um you know the best
looking cars are both masculine and
feminine like an XK. I don't know any
women that don't find Jaguars
attractive. Even women that don't know
anything about cars there something
about because it has a feminine element
to it but then it has the rear hunches
and and so it has a masculine. So it's a
little bit of both to it. You know a lot
of cars look too brutal. You know
Lamborghoodi Countach those look like
guy cars right you drive one girls go
how old are you? Yeah. You pull them a
jag, you're like, "Oh, I like that guy."
>> So sometimes the proportions, the
shapes, the lines, they speak to
everybody. They're universal.
>> Yeah. I mean, the trick is
>> Well, if it speaks to everybody, then
you have a Corolla. You know,
[clears throat]
the best cars pe some people love it,
some people hate it. Anything that gets
emotion going is probably going to work
on some level. You know, I remember
talking to Bob Lutz about this when the
Viper came out. I said, "A lot of people
think it looks like a cartoon car. It's
a bit overexaggerated." He goes, "We're
not trying to sell it to them. We're
trying to sell it to the people think it
looks good, and there's enough of them
out there, you know."
>> For sure. So, so let's talk about um
people have to ask you questions about
cars all the time,
>> but they don't have to actually. Most of
them just
>> people must. I assume lots of people do.
Yeah. When someone asks you for a
recommendation, what what what do you
recommend as a good cheap set of wheels
for a budding enthusiast?
>> Well, you know, there are almost for an
enthusiast or for transportation.
>> Transportation is easy. I mean, someone
who wants something fun for the weekend.
>> Well, first they tell me what it is
they're looking for, you know? I I mean,
obviously cars, Mustangs, Camaros,
things of this nature, any sort of
two-seater sports car. Uh yeah, there's
plenty of choices out there. You don't
need me for that, you Mhm. So, this
event is sponsored in part by Alanga and
Zona. Um, we're both wearing Langa
watches.
>> What drew you to watches?
>> See, I paid for mine.
>> So did I.
>> Oh, you did?
>> I paid for mine also.
>> So, so, and you probably have access to
more of these than I can get. So,
>> Well, it's interesting. You know, watch
making and automotive things have a lot
in common because they're both extremely
mechanical. Mhm.
>> Most watch people don't really like
electric watches the same way they don't
like quartz watches. Quartz watches are
obviously the most accurate you can get,
but there's those appear to have a soul
to them. You know, with these kind of
things, when you turn it, the
>> the you know, there it's a sort of a the
car the watch needs you. If you don't
wind it, it won't run. So, there's a
human element that needs to be attached
to the watch to get it to run, you know.
Yeah.
>> And if you flip it over, you can see the
absolute spectacular mechanicals on the
other side.
>> You do a beautiful job,
>> right? So So very parallel the the
precision and intricacy of a mechanical
watch and a classic automobile.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I I seen them as somewhat
similar. I mean, I like things that need
me. You know, my my cars need me because
I need to do certain things to make sure
they run correctly. Electric cars kind
of run no matter who the master is,
>> you know? It's about like like that
screen door. After a while, you learn it
has to be shut a certain way and normal
people can't do it, but you know that if
you lift it and turn it just a quarter
of an inch, oh, it'll click in and you
shut the
>> What What are your thoughts on on the
new EVs and hybrids that are coming out?
What What does this do to the
collectible market? I I believe you have
a Tesla Plaid. Is that right?
>> The Tesla Plaid's a great Look, I use my
electric car during the week. I mean,
sitting on the freeway in a 40 a 1966
Hemi 426 that gets three miles per
gallon doesn't really make a lot of
sense. You're not going fast. You're not
you're just annoying people and and
poisoning the atmosphere. So, you take
your electric car. Then, in the
weekends, if there's a car rally, you
drive your Mustang or whatever car you
have to the rally. You sit around, you
tell lies about it to other people, and
[snorts] they tell you lies about their
car. And, you know, it's a sort of a
little bit of interaction, you know. So,
so I mentioned the precision of
automobiles and the precision of
watches.
>> You have famously been touring for 40
years, 40 plus years. Um, when you put
together a standup set, do you put the
same sort of precision into structuring
that set?
>> I think I like to think so. I mean, you
you you want to have a joke every six to
nine seconds. It's a bit like spinning
plates at the television show, right?
And then then you want to keep it going,
you know? So, you want to make sure that
the people you're not wasting people's
time. I hate when people How you all
doing? ANYBODY FROM BOSTON? BOSTON.
YEAH. OKAY. That's not comedy. You've
wasted 40 seconds, you know. Get right
into Yeah. Get Keep it moving. You know,
when you watch Rodney, Rodney was a I
was a big fan of Rodney Dangerfield and
it was it was the economy of words. It's
getting the funniest words you can in
the shortest amount of time. You know,
Rodney had jokes I loved like I walked a
stretch joint. It said topless and
bottomless. I went in, there was nobody
there. I mean, it's it's a funny joke. I
mean, because I didn't waste your time.
It wasn't a three minute setup, you
know. One of his favorite jokes. It's so
stupid. My doctor wanted a semen sample,
a stool sample, and a urine sample, so I
gave my underpants, [laughter]
you know. I mean, okay, but it's quick.
Boom, boom, boom. You're not you're not
wasting people's time, you know? Really
interesting. So, you've been known as
somebody who just has toured his whole
career. Even during what was it 22 years
of the Tonight Show, you still were
doing standup on a regular basis.
>> Well, when you're on television, you
rely on 175 other people.
>> They really can't do the show without
all the elements to it. And when you go
out on the road, you're by yourself. You
rise or fall strictly on your own
ability. And I I I like that. You get
all the blame, but you also get all the
glory. And and I I like that. Plus, it's
peace meal. Write joke, tell joke, get
check, boom, next show. Nobody says, you
know, the jokes you told two months ago,
they're not working out. Come back. You
got to come back and do the show again.
You don't have to do that. You know, on
TV, you get there so many irons in the
fire and whatnot, and you're dealing
with, you know, my my favorite TV line
of all time when NBC was letting me go,
I said, you know, I've been number one
for 22 years. 12 or 18 18 of the 23
years and they said we want what's above
number one. I said, "Okay, what uh what
is above? What is above number?" I mean,
it just made me laugh. And even they
realize how stupid that sound. I said,
'What do you mean? How can you have
what's above? Just tell me. Somebody
tell me what Yeah. It just made me
laugh.
>> So, since this is Bloomberg, a financial
network, let's let's talk a little bit
about money.
>> All right.
>> You are known as someone who is savvy
with your money. You only spent the
money you earn.
>> Well, I'm not savvy. I'm dyslexic.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So consequently, I don't really
understand it. All I know is money my I
work and my money relaxes. That's my I
don't want my money out working for me
because he's going to screw up
somewhere. I don't want that whenever I
hear and there's minimal risk and I hear
the word risk and minimal. So that means
I'm going to lose something, right?
>> No. No. I No. I don't
>> I always had even as a kid I worked at
Wilmington Ford. I worked at McDonald's.
Whichever job made the most, I banked.
And the other money was my
>> You did the same with the Tonight Show.
You banked the Tonight Show.
>> I never touched a check in 22 years from
the Tonight Show. That's amazing. I
banked everything. I lived on the money
I made as a comedian. Then when I when I
>> uh when the show ended, oh, I opened
this little passbook. Oh, look. There's
quite a bit of money here. This is This
is good. Yeah. So when you started
collecting cars, did you ever envision
this collection would get this large?
No. Or this valuable?
>> No, I never thought that. No. When I I
remember I would sleep in the alleys in
New York and it was the most depressing.
I remember sleeping on alley. It was one
of those alleys where guys would come
with hookers and I'd be in the back just
hiding behind some trash cans and they
were doing whatever. Really? This is my
life now. I mean, it was like the most
horrible
>> that really on the road you were that
hard travel on 44th and 9th. It was Dyes
Lumberyard right across the way and from
from the alley where I slept a couple of
nights I could see Dykes Lumberyard. I
always had that in my mind and hookers
would come in and they just just
horrible terrible. They just hear
terrible sounds just horrible. I said
really this is my life this is what it
is now you know. So everything better
than that was gravy. Yeah.
>> Well it's been a little bit of gravy.
You recently had a Gwing you found in a
barn. You had a number of cars.
>> No, no, I No, I didn't. I I didn't buy
that. I didn't buy that car was found.
It was sold for $10 million. And we had
the own
>> You had it on the show?
>> We had it on the show. Yes. I did not I
I would like to have owned that car, but
No, I didn't buy it.
>> Didn't you find a number of barn
findiness cars?
>> Yeah, sure. Sure.
>> What What are some of the more memorable
ones?
>> Um, well, the most recent one was a 1963
Jaguar XK. Uh, the guy bought it in '
62,
started drinking about 66, 67,
became a hoarder, just had trash piled
on top of it. Uh,
when he died, the family called me. They
said, uh, I was right across the street.
My uncles had some kind of car. We don't
know what it was, and it was a Jaguar.
And I I said, and this is really the
best way. I said, look, Google it. Find
out what they're worth. Okay. Find out
what they're worth and let me know and
I'll pay you that. And that's what I
>> seems fair.
>> Yeah. I I mean, I paid more than a fair
price because I I don't flip cars. I
don't sell cars. So, to me, this way
nobody go rip me. I don't You don't want
any of that.
>> Any cars on your list that you're still
uh hunting for? Anything you'd like?
>> I buy I buy the story as much as I buy
the car. Really?
>> Yeah. I mean, to me, the fun, you know,
I had a lady call me, 94 years old, and
she and her hudson, her and her husband
bought a 51 Hudson Hornet in New Jersey.
They drove it to California with their
two kids. He bought a gas station. He
ran that for the next 30 years. He died
sometime in the early 90s.
She calls me about 200, I guess, three,
four. Uh, oh, my husband died like 20
years ago. We got this car. I said, "I
already have a 53 Honda." Will you come
look at it? Okay. So, I got to look at
it. She's 94. No hearing a no glasses.
Right. And she said, "Would you give me
$5,000 for it?" "Okay." So, I bought it.
I take it back to my garage. It takes
about a year and a half. We get it all
finished. Let me see if she's still
alive. I called her up. Hello. Oh, it's
Jaylen. I The car is all finished. You
want to go for a ride? She Okay. Now,
she's 96. And she says, "Can I bring the
kids?" I said, "Yeah, bring the kids."
So I get there and the kids have got a
blindfold and the kids are 74 and 72
[laughter]
and they're blindfolded her, right? And
she's like touching the car. Oh, the
pain feels so smooth. Oh, it used to be
so rough. We'll take the bl Oh, she
starts crying. You want to go for Let's
go for a ride. So the kids get in the
back, right? So we're driving along and
we're talking and the two kids start
doing this to each other, poking each
other, right? And and she turns around.
I I told you kids. And she's whacking
the crap out of him. Mr. was nice enough
to take us a ride in his car and you
kids can't behave and the three of them
are just laughing. I mean, they're just
falling down and she and she's not
holding back. I mean, she's really
hitting them, but she's laughing while
she's, you know, and it was just so
funny. It was just so funny. She lived
to be 106.
>> Wow.
>> And every time I get in the car, it
makes [clears throat] me laugh because
it was just so funny to see these two
old and they all look the same age, you
know, she's 96, they're 74. and she's
just whacking the crap out of it.
Hilarious.
>> So, more stories than there's a hole in
your collection or you're enamored with
this.
>> My colle with this. No, I don't know.
>> It's just about the stories.
>> My key to success is low self-esteem.
>> I've heard you say that before.
>> Yes. Yes. Because
if you have low self-esteem, you never
assume you're the smartest person in the
room. I assume I'm the dumbest person in
the room. Let me look around and see
what the other people are doing here.
And that's what you do. You know, I have
so many friends that do TV shows and
they really think I don't like I want to
change these lights and the lighting
director who's been in the business 40
years. I don't think No, wait. Well, I
want it changed. Well, no. I don't what
why don't you just let the lighting
director do his job? You know, the fun
thing about the Tonight Show was when I
did it, anybody could pull pull the cord
and stop the train because I don't like
this. I don't think this is funny. Did
it get to be annoying sometimes? But
everybody felt they had a a say in what
was going on. they felt like they were
part of the whole system. This idea
that, you know, do not make eye contact
with the star and just all that kind of
nonsense, you know. So, to me, that was
always the key to to to being
successful.
>> So, so let's stay with um the Tonight
Show and comedy.
>> Um you've interviewed a few presidents,
right? Um you interviewed Barack Obama.
>> Who what other presidents did you
interview?
uh was Barack Obama. Was Reagan before
you uh started on
>> No, I I interviewed Reagan. I had dinner
with Reagan at the White House a couple
of times, but he wasn't ever on the
show. Barack Obama was the first sitting
president ever to do the show.
>> Um Barack Obama,
Hillary had the nomination locked up and
then he announced he was running for
president. So I called him up and said,
"You want to come on the show?" "Oh,
cool. Thank you so much." you know, he
rented a car, drove himself to the show,
you know, walks out. I go, "Hey, my
name's Barack Hussein Obama. I'm running
President United States." I said, "Okay,
black guy from Chicago named Hussein." I
said, "You know, you shouldn't even have
to campaign. I just think you you're
shoeing with that." And you know, he got
the joke and he laughed. He was very
funny. And we got to be friends. And so,
next time he came on the show, I asked
him. It was the first time a sitting
president ever and the whole parking lot
was tented. Mhm.
>> So, a satellite could not see where
>> when he came in,
>> where he came in. Yeah.
>> And I mean, I've told this story, but
this is
I have the same idiot friends I had in
eighth grade. So, I'm telling I had
Barack Obama on the show and he gave me
his phone number. Nuh-uh. Uh-huh. Uhuh.
Uhhuh. You don't get it. You said no.
All right, let's call him up. I go, I'm
It's the president of the United States.
I'm not going to call him up. Look, you
don't have it. Nuh-uh. Nuhuh. So I I
take out my phone book and I cover the
phone. I go see what it says there.
Barack Obama, president of the United
States. His phone number is right in
here. You know, I said, "All right, all
right. I'll call him. You want me to
call him?" I call. It's like 3:00. I
figure, okay, what can go wrong? Yeah.
Hello, Barack here. Mr. President. Yeah.
Jay Leno. What can I do? VJ, I'm just
here with some of my friends. Lose this
number, Jay. Click. [laughter]
So, your reputation has never been a
very political uh comedian. You play it
straight down the middle.
>> Well, I used to get we used to get
quoted every day in the New York Times.
We we tried to make fun of both sides.
Yeah. But, you know, that's the way we
did it. That's not the way everybody
else does it, but that's okay.
>> So, so recently Jimmy Kimmel mentioned
on the air that you called to check in
on him when when he was temporarily
suspended. uh is what do you think the
future of late night looks like? And and
what does that say about that comedians
have to watch what they say?
>> Well, apparently they don't have to
watch what they say because he's back on
TV.
>> Okay. I mean, you either believe in free
speech or you don't. You know, free
speech, it only becomes annoying when it
says something you don't like.
>> Other than that, it's fine. And that
that's really the only the only problem.
Then there's always something somebody
doesn't like whether it's banning books
or Huck Finn or whatever it might be. So
to me I I always support sweet I mean I
support Jimmy as a comedian but also
just the whole premise. You don't have
to agree with him to realize I mean I I
I had people that tore me apart every
day
but they had the right to do it. I I
didn't like what they said but I agree
with their right to say it if they
chose. You you have Dave Chappelle
speaking at the comedy festival in Saudi
Arabia saying he feels like uh free
speech is under assault in the US. Uh
not that Saudi Arabia is a hot bed of
free speech.
>> Well, yeah. Yeah. Again, I I don't like
this new thing of comics criticizing
other com. It's just we're comedians.
Okay. Just, you know, I believe in free
speech. I I shouldn't have to say any
more than that and I will defend it to
the end. But you know, and well, how
about when he said this again that
whatever I don't have to agree with it,
you know, it's like the Nazis marching
in Skoi. Okay, they they have the right
to do that. I don't agree with it. What
does he like to see someone punch him in
the face? Yes, but I don't want that to
be police doing it. If some angry Jewish
guy wants to go, well, okay, it's fine
with me. You know, I might even cheer
him on. But um no I I I again I think
you it's America you know the
>> and what about the in the era of
streaming what about the future of late
night we heard Co Bear is supposedly not
profitable I don't know how true that is
we heard similar threats about Jimmy's
show h how do you look at you were a
steward of the Tonight Show for 22 years
>> what do you think the future of this
looks like? Well, I I I mean, when you
could turn on streaming
and see Harrison Ford talk for a half an
hour saying whatever you want
unscripted, or you could watch him do a
seven minute segment on a talk show.
What are you going to do?
>> Or Jay Leno for 45 minutes.
>> Yeah. But yeah, I mean, to me, I think
it's just the nature of television. It
it changes. It goes from one thing to
another. I mean, it's like going from CD
players to c cassettes to CDs to it's
just another it's another format that
that you can you can use. So, uh the
thing that really kills late night
>> is the incessant number of commercials.
After 11:30, you can run
>> like 9 minutes at 12:00 where some crazy
>> Yeah, it's it's wild.
>> Yeah. So, and when you realize you've
just watched all three Godfather movies
in a row without one commercial,
suddenly seeing Jake from State Farm
again, you know, okay, enough with this
guy. You know, to me, that's the thing
that's really hurt late night. It's not
necessarily what people say. It's the
fact that people go, "Oh, God, another
commercial. You just, you know, speeding
through."
>> All right, so we don't want to keep you
all day because we know you have a lot
of places to go, cars to see. I want to
I want to do a speed round.
>> A speed round,
>> right? uh dozen questions in under a
minute. I'm just going to throw these at
you and and give me your answers. All
right,
>> starting with what's your favorite car
to drive?
>> I do.
>> What's your favorite motorcycle in your
garage?
>> I brought Superior.
>> What car offers the best bang for the
buck?
>> Um Corvette.
>> What's your favorite car in your
collection? Not necessarily a driver,
but just the favorite car?
>> McLaren F1.
>> That's That's a tough one to argue with.
What's been the biggest maintenance
annoyance in your collection?
>> Uh, my 1925 Doble steam car.
>> The one that kind of blew up. Is that
the one we're talking about?
>> That blew up, but that wasn't the one
that actually blew up in my face. No.
>> Any cars you have any regrets passing
on?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> What modern car features do you find
most annoying?
>> Uh,
probably the infotainment system. Uh,
you know, I have my 51 Hudson. I reach
over, I press a button, I get a station.
I don't have to stop and look at it. Are
you happy this? Yes. Would you make this
selection again? Yes. Others have made
this selection. Would you continue? Yes,
I would. You know, would you pick your
language? English is good. Thank you.
You know, it's your fifth word.
>> Annoying. Um, what car do you drive the
most often from your collection?
>> Oh, I don't know. Uh, well,
I drive a lot of them car. Uh, that's
what they were made for.
>> Model T is kind of fun. I guess I don't
drive that much. Uh, probably the
Mustang. That's pretty good. Well,
actually the Tesla when I have to go to
the airport. All those kind of things.
>> What What's the rarest car in your
collection? Not necessarily the most
valuable, but one of very few.
>> Well, that would be the double steam
car. Yeah.
>> Mhm. Um,
is there any one brand you would never
buy that you stay away from?
>> No. No, not really one brand.
>> You don't have a lot of Ferraris, right?
>> No, I don't have any Ferraris, but has
nothing to do with the cars. The cars
are excellent. You know, for the longest
time, you had to buy two mandials before
you're allowed to buy the car you, you
know, so I just never took part in that.
>> What car surprises people the most,
whether driving it or just the way it's
put together? Well, I have the kind of
cars people not surprised that I got
there early or late. They're surprised I
got there at all. When you show up at a
1906 Stanley Steamer and it's on fire,
[laughter]
people like, "Oh my god, your car is on
fire." Yeah, I know. It's supposed to be
You carry open flame and you [laughter]
>> um What's the most recent addition to
the collection?
>> A Mustang GTD.
>> What's the best sounding engine you own?
Uh um Porsche Carrera GT V10.
>> And final question is is there one dream
car you're still hunting for?
>> No, no, I'm I'm quite happy with what I
have. Like I say, be happy with what you
have. Just make sure you have enough.
>> There you go. Thank you, Jay, for being
so Thank you. Thank you.
That was my live interview with Jay Leno
at the Newport Audrey Concosta Elegance.
If you enjoyed that conversation, check
out any of the 592
we've done over the past 12 years. You
can find those at iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever you get
your favorite podcasts. And be sure and
check out my new book, How Not to
Invest: The Ideas, Numbers, and Behavior
That Destroys Wealth. and how to avoid
them at your favorite bookstore or
[music] book seller. I would be remiss
if I did not thank the crack team that
puts these conversations together each
week. My videographer at the live event
was Sebastian Escobar. Alexis Noriega is
my video producer. Anna Luke is my
podcast producer. Shawn Russo is my
researcher. Sage Bowman is the [music]
head of podcast here at Bloomberg. I'm
Barry Rholz. You've been listening to
Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
[music]
>> [music]